NPM:
   Node Package Manager npm provides following two main functionalities:
Online repositories for node.js packages/modules which are searchable on search.nodejs.org
Command line utility to install Node.js packages, do version management and dependency
management of Node.js packages.

npm install npm -g
npm version
npm help

Installing Modules using npm:
npm install <Module Name>

npm install -g @angular/cli
npm install express

Global vs Local installation:
  By default, npm installs any dependency in the local mode. Here local mode refers to the package
installation in node_modules directory lying in the folder where Node application is present.
Locally deployed packages are accessible via require method. For example when we installed
express module, it created node_modules directory in the current directory where it installed
express module.

 npm install express -g

Using package.json:
  package.json is present in the root directory of any Node application/module and is used to define
the properties of a package.

Attributes of Package.json:

name - name of the package
version - version of the package
description - description of the package
homepage - homepage of the package
author - author of the package
contributors - name of the contributors to the package
dependencies - list of dependencies. npm automatically installs all the dependencies
mentioned here in the node_module folder of the package.
repository - repository type and url of the package
main - entry point of the package
keywords - keywords

Uninstalling a module:
npm uninstall express
List:
npm ls
Update:
npm update express
Search:
npm search express

Create a module:
  Creation of module requires package.json to be generated. Let's generate package.json using
npm, which will generate basic skeleton of the package.json.

npm init
This utility will walk you through creating a package.json file.

It only covers the most common items, and tries to guess sane defaults.
See 'npm help json' for definitive documentation on these fields
and exactly what they do.
Use 'npm install <pkg> --save' afterwards to install a package and
save it as a dependency in the package.json file.

Press ^C at any time to quit.
name: (webmaster)
You will need to provide all the required information about your module. YOu can take help from
the above mentioned package.json file to understand the meanings of various information
demanded. Once package.json is generated. Use the following command to register yourself with
npm repository site using a valid email address.
$ npm adduser
Username: mcmohd
Password:
Email: (this IS public) mcmohd@gmail.com
Now its time to publish your module:
$ npm publish
If everything is fine with your module, then it will be published in the reporsitory and will be
accessible to install using npm like any other other Node.js module.







reference link:https://www.tutorialspoint.com/nodejs/pdf/nodejs_npm.pdf


